Dataset:
========

The dataset used in the project is the Student Performance dataset available from the UCI 
Machine Learning Repository. The UCI Machine Learning Repository is a collection of databases, 
domain theory, and data generators that are used by machine learning community for the empirical 
analysis of machine learning algorithms. [reference UCI repo here]

The data was collected in 2005-2006 from two public schools in the Alentejo region of Portugal. 
The data was built from two sources. The first - a questionnaire consisting of various multiple choice 
questions related to various factors that were expected to affect student performance according 
to Cortex et. al. [reference here]. These factors included information like weekday alcohol and 
weekend alcohol consumption, heath factors, previous class failures, etc. The second source of 
data were the schools' official student records which included their grades. The student records 
were in paper form. The data collection and integration was done by hand. [refence Cortez]

The grading system is similar to our university's system. The assessment is carried out at three 
periodic intervals, and the last assessment is considered the final grade. The grading is done on a scale 
of 0 to 20, with 0 being the worst score possible, and 20 being a perfect score. The dataset includes 
the data for Mathematics and Portuguese Language subjects. The students in the Math and Portuguese dataset 
need not be the same.

The questionnaire was answered by 788 students. Later, 111 answers were discarded due to lack of identification. 
Also, during the integration process, it was discovered that certain attributes were lacking in disciminative 
quality. For example, the field on their family income was left unanswered on most questionnaires, whereas close 
to everyone had a personal computer at home and lived with their families. These attributes were dropped. [reference Cortez]

The number of records in the Math database is 395, and 695 for the Portuguese dataset.